A journal article contained information regarding a no-wire pacemaker. The authors described a failed implant due to bad sensing of the heart rhythm and another case of the no-wire pacemaker becoming loose during implant and becoming stuck in an artery that leads out to the lungs. The device was successfully retrieved and two days later a no-wire pacemaker was successfully implanted. One patient also developed chest pain after the procedure, but there was no evidence of build-up of extra fluid in the space around the heart. The patient was released the following day with simple pain-killers and the pain went away on its own. The current status of the devices from the first two cases above is unknown right now. At a later time the manufacturer added the following additional information: This information is based upon published cases outside the US. Patient information is limited due to concerns around privacy. There is not enough information to determine manufacturing date. Because there is not enought information, it is not known if the event has been reported before. A request for additional information will be made and if more information becomes available, an add-on report will be made.
It was reported that a patient developed an infection around the implantable pulse generator that was seen by ultrasound imaging of the heart. An infection on the right-side of the area between the stomach and the thigh was also reported. The patient is part of a clinical registry. If more information becomes available, an add-on report will be made.
It was reported that a patient experienced headaches, irregular heart beats, chest pain, unusually fast heart rhythm, and unusually slow heart rhythm due to inappropriate delivery of electrical current caused by no-wire implantable pulse generator bad sensing (of the heart rhythm). The patient is part of a clinical registry. Sensing settings were changed multiple times but the sensing was still bad for the patient. The implantable pulse generator sensing was shut off and the implantable pulse generator is still implanted. If more information becomes available, an add-on report will be made.
No description available.
It was reported that during the implant of the no-wire pacemaker, a good position could not be found due to patient internal heart structure. It was also reported that there were multiple attempts to place the device. The first attempt had bad sensing and bad electrical connection to the heart. The device was removed from the body after four attempts and a clump of solidified blood was observed on the device and delivery tool. The device was cleaned and an attempt at placement was made four more times. The device was removed from the body and replaced. The patient was part of a clinical registry. At a later time the manufacturer added the following additional information: the device was returned and analyzed, no problems were found.
It was reported that during the implant of an implantable pulse generator, crossing the inner heart valve with the delivery tool was easy, but the delivery tool always pointed to the wrong part of the heart and the right location was not possible to reach. After several tries, the implantable pulse generator was put in a non-ideal location. Sensing was bad. The device was moved. The doctor decided to move the device back to the upper heart chamber to try again, and managed to place in a better location. However, this location did not have good sensing or electrical connection to the heart. The device was retrieved and it was noted that there were clumps of solidified blood on the device. Due to this and the long procedure, a second device was tried and successful was placed in a better location with acceptable sensing and electrical connection to the heart. At a later time the manufacturer added the following additional information: the device was returned and analyzed, no problems were found.
It was reported that during the implant of the no-wire implantable pulse generator, 8 to 10 placements were attempted. Initial placement was attempted on the thicker heart wall but the delivery tool kepts moving down towards the tip of the heart due to the shape of the heart. Initial secure placement was seen with video X-ray but sensing and electrical connection was bad, and were still bad after checking again. Other areas of the heart were tried with the same results. The device had very secure placement in the different areas of the heart, except for one position. After the sixth try, an acceptable area was found. The doctor waited a while to see if electrical connection was good. The placement of the device was not ideal in the heart, but after the previous attempts it was decided to wait and recheck the measurements later. When checked the electrical connection was not consitent but seemed okay. The decision was made to stick with this position. However, as the connection of the device to the delivery tool was being cut, the electrical connection became bad. It was decided not to stick with this placement. Two more placements were tried with similar bad results. The procedure was stopped at this point. The patient was rescheduled for a regular (with-wires) implantable pulse generator. At a later time the manufacturer added the following additional information: the device was returned and tested by the manufacturer. No problems were found. The device memory was checked and bad sensing signals according the the device manual were seen.
It was reported that when the no-wire pacemaker was first pushed out from the delivery tool and attached to the heart, testing with tugging on the device revealed that the device was in the wrong area. The doctor tried a few times to take the device back into the delivery tool but was not successful. It was hard to pull back the device. The device was taken out without being fully taken back into the delivery tool. The device was not implanted and a new no-wire pacemaker was implanted. At a later time the manufacturer added the following additional information: the device was returned and tested, and no problems were found.
It was reported that the patient's no-wire pacemaker had bad electrical connection. It was also reported that the electrical connection got worse at the 6 month follow-up visit. The no-wire pacemaker is still in use. The patient is part of a clinical study. At a later time the manufacturer added the following additional information:  if more information becomes available, an add-on report will be made.
It was reported that there was a bad electrical connection and a unusally decreased battery life on the no-wire implantable pulse generator. The implantable pulse generator remains in use. The patient is part of a clinical study. At a later time the manufacturer added the following additional information: if more information becomes available, an add-on report will be made.
